---
sidebar_position: 1
---

# Intro

## Use case

Please consider that any Spec-Up-T-based website is generated through the execution of a few commands. This can be done either on the local machine or we use github.com to execute those necessary commands in github action scripts.

### A. Read
Uses github pages (github.io) website, or the plain index.html file generated by Spec-Up-T anywhere it is hosted. He/she reads concepts in text and terminology in the glossary-section of the document. 

If this glossary section is generated by Spec-Up-T [(How can I tell that it's a Spec-Up-T-based glossary?)](../../faq#how-can-i-determine-spec-up-t), then its tailor-made contextual glossary will generate pop-ups here and there in the text offered. Those can be read as well as the definition section too. Both will generate the same text. However, the definition section in the document will have more functionality then the pop-ups.

### B. Send link
Use cases A plus the definition section offers an anchor to a term definition. Click the anchor symbol before the term and it'll automatically be copied into the clipboard of the device you're using.
Now the link can be pasted anywhere you like.

### C. Check metadata

Use cases A plus the definition section offers buttons to the version management system behind the terminology/glossary. This metadata tells a reader who accepted a change to the terminology, when and exactly what it consisted of. Who is a github user account; therefore we trust git and github.com for consistency, identification and authorization. Not always is the person who accepts the changes (admin) als the person that created the change (terminology-author!). A reader can get an inside in the whole acceptance process of a certain change, as long as it is in the same repo.
This last requirement indicates that the sources of `xrefs` do not have a full version management history available in the referencing repository. Readers of metadata have to be aware of this exception.